Let's take a look at the AWS web application firewall.
Now we've looked at a couple of firewalls in this class.
We've looked at the fact that there's that hidden
firewall at the hypervisor level.
We've looked at the fact there is, in a sense, firewalls on the subnets.
There are firewalls protecting the instances,
but what about protecting my edge locations?
So the web application firewall monitors the HTTP,
the HTTPS,
any requests that are forwarded to an application
load balancer or to CloudFront, the CDN,
so something coming in to Amazon from the outside world.
And the access is going to be based on conditions
controlling the content that you want accessed.
Requested content is delivered, or based on the request, hey, it's forbidden.
We can also use CloudFront to return a custom error message page,
and you might want to use something like this because it's PCI DSS 3.
2 level 1 compliant,
so maybe you need that sort of additional protection for your
web-based content that's being served from AWS.
So there's three basic behaviors that can be chosen when
setting up the application firewall.
Number 1, allow all requests, except the ones that you specify.
So this might be to block requests from specific attackers,
or block all requests, except the ones that you specify.
So for example,
maybe we're serving content for a restricted website to specific users,
users that you know.
Maybe you want to count the requests that match the properties that you specify.
We allow or block requests based on an analysis of the
properties contained in the web requests.
So, we're getting down to a pretty granular level,
saying that's in that request, not coming in.
Protection by defined conditions,
maybe the IP address where the requests originate,
maybe there's specific strains that appear in the requests,
maybe it's the length of requests, maybe it's the values in the request headers,
maybe it's the presence of malicious SQL code,
maybe it's the presence of cross-site scripting.
So we have pretty powerful protection that's going to allow you to
ultimately have a higher level of potential of protecting these
DDoS attacks that happen in the world.
Now the creation of these web security rules is utilizing the API,
therefore, it can become completely automated by your developers.
Let's take a look at a fairly new service.
So the Shield is a service that is doing advanced DDoS protection.
You've got a couple of different levels.
There's the standard, which is dealing with web applications,
what's a web application being attacked on?
Well, network transport layer DDoS attacks.
So ultimately what's going on here is that you're actually configuring the
control of the web ACLs that match the DDoS request patterns.
Obviously, that could be pretty difficult to actually figure out,
and this is configured by the web application firewall service.
So you may be thinking, well then can't I just use the web application firewall?
Well hold on, we'll explain.
So there's the one level.
We also have the advanced, which says well,
we cover more than just the web application,
we'll cover elastic load balancer, CloudFront,
Route 53,
all of the services that potentially are going to be
out there in the edge locations.
This involves using Amazon to set up detection and mitigation,
but using some intelligence,
using the smarts of yourself and Amazon to protect for network layer 3 and 4,
for example, UDP reflection, SYN flood attacks,
DNS query flood attacks, application layer,
including HTTP flood, cache-bursting attacks.
With the advanced versus the standard, well there's some money now involved.
So, when we look at the advanced,
24x7 DDoS Response Team from Amazon helping you
with assistance for your problems, advanced real-time metrics and reports,
full visibility into attacks on your resources,
and what this is giving you is cost protection,
because if you're involving the Shield, Amazon's saying,
hey, if we can't protect it,
then we're not going to charge you for the overruns
based on somebody attacking your system,
pulling potential data requests out,
overloading your budget potentially from outbound traffic.
So it's giving you cost protection features for elastic load balancing,
confirmation, and Route 53 services.
So we can protect up to 100 CloudFront distributions,
Route 53 zones, and/or elastic load balancing resources in total,
so pretty big. So you have a choice, self-managed or AWS-managed service option.